1. What is React?
    React is a JavaScript library for building single-page applications. 

2.What are states in react?
    state are used to store data in react.

3. what are props in react?
    Props are arguments passed into React components  

4. what useStates in react?
    useState is a React Hook that lets you add a state variable to your component.

5. what is useEffect in react?
    The useEffect Hook allows you to perform side effects in your components. Some examples of side effects are: fetching data, directly updating the DOM, and timers. 

6. Explain lifecycle method in react?
    Each component in React has a lifecycle which you can monitor and manipulate during its three main phases.
    The three phases are: Mounting, Updating, and Unmounting.

7. what is useRefs in react?
    The useRef Hook allows you to persist values between renders. It can be used to store a mutable value that does not cause a re-render when updated.

8. what prop drilling in react?
    Prop drilling refers to the process of passing down props through multiple layers of components, even when some of those components do not directly use the props.


9. what are advantages of react?
    react is used to create single page application.
    reusability: can create a component and reuse it.
    flexibility: there is no predefined structure for react.


10. what are disadvntages of react?
    No standard way to write an application. 
    it's not seo friendly

11. what is virtual DOM?
    The virtual DOM is a lightweight copy of the real DOM that allows React to manage changes more efficiently by minimizing the direct manipulation required on the real DOM.

12.what is Reconciliation?
    Reconciliation is the process by which React determines the most efficient way to update the UI in response to changes in data or component hierarchy.

13. what is context in react?
    Context provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props down manually at every level.

14. what is useContext in react?
    useContext is a React Hook that lets you read and subscribe to context from your component.

15. what is useReducers in react?
    useReducer is a React Hook that lets you add a reducer to your component.

16. what is redux in react?
    A predictable state container for JavaScript application. Which helps to prop drilling.
    
17. why redux is used in react?
    avoid prop drilling by maintaining global state.
    redux provide MVC structure

18. what is useSelector?
    useSelector is a hook provided by React Redux that allows functional components to extract and access data from the Redux store.

19. flow of redux in react?


20. Performance optimization techniques in react?
    i.throttling and debouncing
    ii. lazy loading
    iii. memoization using useMemo, useCallback, react.Memo

21. what is useMemo in react?
    useMemo is a React Hook that caches the result of a function and returns it when called again with the same arguments.

22. what is useCallback in react?
    useCallback is a React Hook that lets you cache a function definition between re-renders.

23. what is react.memo?
    React Memo is a higher-order component that wraps around a component to memoize the rendered output and avoid unnecessary renderings in cases where the props passed to the child component are the same.

24. Explain the MVC architecture.
    model view controller
    model:
        The model defines what data the app should contain.
    view:
        The view defines how the app's data should be displayed.
    controller:
        The controller contains logic that updates the model and/or view in response to input from the users of the app.

25. What is JSX?
    JSX stands for JavaScript XML. JSX allows us to write HTML in React


26. What is higher-order component in React?
    higher-order component is a function that takes a component as an argument and returns a new component that wraps the original component.


27. Explain one way data binding in React?
    One-way data binding means that data flows in one direction, typically from parent components to child components through props. 

28. What is react router?
    React Router is a library for handling routing and navigation in React JS Applications.

29. What are hooks in React?
    Hooks allow function components to have access to state and other React features

30. What is React Fragments?
    ​ React Fragment is a feature in React that allows you to return multiple elements from a React component by allowing you to group a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM.

31. What is a react developer tool?


32. Explain CORS?
    CORS allows resource requests from different origins, bypassing the Same Origin Policy.

33. What is flux architecture in redux?
    An application architecture for React utilising a unidirectional data flow.

34. what is pure function?
    Pure functions do not modify the values passed to them. For example, squareAll function that accepts an array does not overwrite the items inside this array. Instead, it returns a new array by using items map.

35. What are Pure Components?
    React pure components are the components that do not re-render when the value of props and state has been updated with the same values.

36. What are controlled components?
        Controlled components in React are the components whose state and behaviors are managed by React components using states

38. What are uncontrolled components?
    uncontrolled components manage their own state and control their behaviors with the help of DOM.

39. What is Lifting State Up in React?
    In React, sharing state is accomplished by moving it up to the closest common ancestor of the components that need it.


40. what is single page applications in react?
    A Single Page Application (SPA) is a web application that loads a single HTML page and dynamically updates that page as the user interacts with the app.
